hi when talking about AI safety people
often talk about the legend of King
Midas you've probably heard this one
before Midas is an ancient king who
values above all else wealth and money
and so when he's given an opportunity to
make a wish he wishes that everything he
touches would turn to gold
now as punishment for his greed
everything he touches turns to gold this
includes his family who turned into gold
statues and his food which turns into
gold and he can't eat it
the story generally ends with Midas
starving to death surrounded by gold
with the moral being there's more to
life than money or perhaps be careful
what you wish for though actually I
think he would die sooner because any
molecules of oxygen that touched the
inside of his lungs would turn to gold
before he could breathe them in so he
would probably asphyxiated and then when
he fell over stiffly in his solid gold
clothes some part of him would probably
touch the ground which would then turn
to gold and I guess the ground is one
object so the entire planet would turn
to gold gold is three times denser than
rock I guess gravity would get three
times stronger or the planet would be
one-third the size or I guess it doesn't
really matter either way a solid gold
planet is completely uninhabitable
so maybe the moral of the story is
actually that these be careful what you
wish for kind of stories tend to lack
the imagination to consider just how bad
the consequences of getting what you
wish for can actually be hey future Rob
from the editing booth here I got
curious about this question so I did the
obvious thing and I asked under sandberg
of the future of humanity Institute what
would happen if the world turned to sell
the gold and yes it does kill everyone
one thing is that because gold is softer
than rock the whole world becomes a lot
sort of smoother the mountains become
lower and this means that the ocean if
the ocean didn't turn to gold sort of
spreads out a lot more and covers a lot
more of the surface but perhaps more
importantly the increased gravity pulls
the atmosphere in which brings a giant
spike in air pressure which comes with a
giant spike in temperature so the
atmosphere goes up to about 200 degrees
Celsius and kills everyone I knew
everyone would die I just wasn't sure
what would kill us first
anyway why were we talking about this ai
safety right there's definitely an
element of this be careful what you wish
for thing in training a Isis
the system will do what you said and not
what you meant now usually we talk about
this with hypothetical examples things
like in those old computer file videos
there's stamp collector which is told to
maximize stamps at the cost of
everything else or when we were going
through concrete problems in AI safety
the example used was this hypothetical
cleaning robot which for example when
rewarded for not seeing any messes puts
its bucket on its head so it can't see
any messes or in other situations in
order to reduce the influence it has on
the world it blows up the moon so these
are kind of far-fetched in hypothetical
examples does it happen with real
current machine learning systems the
answer is yes all the time
and Victoria Kurkova and AI safety
researcher a deep mind has put together
a great list of examples on her block so
in this video we're going to go through
and have a look at some of them one
thing that becomes clear for him looking
at this list is that the problem is
fundamental the examples cover all kinds
of different types of systems anytime
that what you said isn't what you meant
this kind of thing can happen even
simple algorithms like evolution will do
it for example this evolutionary
algorithm is intended to evolve
creatures that run fast so the fitness
function just finds the center of mass
of the creature simulates the creature
for a little while and then measures how
far or how fast the center of mass is
move so a creature that center of mass
moves a long way over the duration of
the simulation must be running fast what
this results in is this a very tall
creature with almost all of its mass at
the top which when you start simulating
it falls over this counts is moving the
mass a long way in a short time so the
creature is running fast not quite what
we asked for of course in real life you
can't just be very tall for free if you
have mass that's high up you have to
have lifted it up there yourself
but in this setting the programmers
accidentally gave away gravitational
potential energy for free and the system
evolved to exploit that free energy
source so evolution will definitely do
this now reinforcement learning agents
are in a sense more powerful than
evolutionary algorithms it's a more
sophisticated system but that doesn't
actually help in this case look at this
reinforcement learning agent it was
trained to play this boat racing game
called Coast runners the program has
wanted the AI to win the race so they
rewarded it for getting a high score in
the game but it turns out there's more
than one way to get points for example
you get some points for picking up power
and the agent discovered that these
three power-ups here happened to respawn
at just the right speed dad if you go
around in a circle and crash into
everything and don't even try to race it
all you can keep picking up these
power-ups over and over and over and
over again and that turns out to get you
more points than actually trying to win
the race oh look at this agent that's
been tasked with controlling a simulated
robot arm to put the red Lego brick on
top of the black one okay no they need
to be stacked together so let's have the
reward function check that the bottom
face of the red brick is at the same
height as the top face of the black
brick that means they must be connected
right okay so it's specifying what you
want explicitly is hard
we knew that it's just really hard to
say exactly what you mean but why not
have the system learn what its reward
should be and we already have a video
about this reward modeling approach but
there are actually still specification
problems in that setting as well look at
this reward modeling agent it's learning
to play an Atari game called Montezuma's
Revenge
now it's trained in a similar way to the
bakflip agent from the previous video
humans are shown short video clips and
asked to pick which clips they think
show the agent doing what it should be
doing the difference is in this case
they trained the reward model first and
then trained the reward learning agent
with that model instead of doing them
both concurrently now if you saw this
clip would you approve it looks pretty
good right it's just about to get the
key it's climbing up the ladder you need
the keys to progress in the game this is
doing pretty well unfortunately what the
agent then does is this there's a slight
difference between do the things which
should have high reward according to
human judgment and do the things which
humans think should have high reward
based on a short out of context video
clip or how about this one
here the task is to pick up the object
so this clip is pretty good right nope
the hand is just in front of the object
by placing the hand between the ball and
the camera the agent can trick the human
into thinking that it's about to pick it
up this is a real problem with systems
that rely on human feedback there's
nothing to stop them from tricking the
human if they can get away with it you
can also have problems with the system
finding bugs in your environment here
the environment you specified isn't
quite the environment you met for
example look at this agent that's play
Cubert the basic idea of Qbert is that
you jump around you avoid the enemies
and when you jump on the squares they
change color and once you've changed all
of the squares then that's the end of
the level you get some points all of the
squares flash and then it starts the
next level this agent has found a way to
sort of stay at the end of the level
state and not progress on to the next
level but look at the score it just
keeps going I'm gonna fast forward it
it's somehow found some bug in the game
that means that it doesn't really have
to play and it still gets a huge number
of points or here's an example from code
bullet which is kind of a fun Channel
yeah he's trying to get this creature to
run away from the laser and it finds a
bug in the physics engine I don't even
know how that works what else have we
got oh I like this one this is kind of a
hacking one gen prog this is the system
that's trying to generate short computer
programs that produce a particular
output for a particular input but the
system learned that it could find the
place where the target output was stored
in the text file delete that output and
then write a program that returns a new
output so the evaluation system runs the
program observes that there's no output
checks where the correct output should
be stored and finds that there's nothing
there and says oh there's supposed to be
no output and the program produced no
output good job I also like this one
this is a simulated robot arm that's
holding a frying pan with a pancake now
it would be nice to teach the robot to
flip the pancake that's pretty hard
let's first just try to teach it to not
drop the pancake so what we need is to
just give it a small reward for every
frame that the pancake isn't on the
floor so it will just keep it in the pan
well it turns out that that's pretty
hard to so the system effectively gives
up on trying to not drop the pancake and
goes for the next best thing to delay
failure for as long as possible how do
you delay the pancake hitting the floor
just throw it as high as you possibly
can I think we can reconstruct the
original audio here yeah that's just a
few of the examples on the list I
encourage you to check out the entire
list there'll be a link in the
description to that I guess my main
point is that these kinds of
specification problems are not unusual
and they're not silly mistakes being
made by the programmers this is sort of
the default behavior that we should
expect from machine learning systems so
coming up with systems that
don't exhibit this kind of behavior
seems to be a important research
priority thanks for watching I'll see
you next time I want to end the video
with a big thank you to all my excellent
patrons all of these people here in this
video I'm especially thanking Kellan
Lusk I hope you all enjoyed the Q&A that
I put up recently second half of that is
coming soon I also have a video of how I
gave myself this haircut because why not
you